>> Ifill: POLICE ARREST THE
ALLEGED GUNMAN WHO KILLED NINE
IN A HISTORIC BLACK CHURCH IN
SOUTH CAROLINA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
POPE FRANCIS CALLS FOR SWIFT
ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE, AND
MAKES A MORAL CASE FOR HUMANS TO
HALT GLOBAL WARMING.
>> WHAT HE IS DOING I BELIEVE IS
CALLING ALLF O US TO RECOGNIZE
THERE ARE SERIOUS PROBLEMS.
>> Ifill: THEN, OVERWORKED AND
UNDERPAID.
THE ECONOMIC PUSH TO EXPAND
OVERTIME PAY FOR MILLIONS OF
WORKERS.
>> BECAUSE THEY PUT THEIR
MANAGERS ON SALARY, THEY CAN
WORK THEIR MANAGERS AS MANY
HOURS AS THEY WANT.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, CUBA'S MODERN
ARTISTS PUT THEIR WORK ON
DISPLAY BEFORE AN EAGER
INTERNATIONAL MARKET, WHILE
LIMITS TO EXPRESSION REMAIN.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE MAYOR OF
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA
CALLED IT "PURE, PURE
CONCENTRATED EVIL."
THE CITY AND STATE REELED TODAY
FROM A BLOODY ASSAULT, A WHITE
SHOOTER GUNNING DOWN BLACK
VICTIMS AT A PLACE OF WORSHIP.
THE SUSPECT WAS CAPTURED, IN A
NEIGHBORING STATE, BUT THE
MOTIVE REMAINED A MYSTERY.
THE MANHUNT ENDED LATE THIS
MORNING WHEN A TIP LED POLICE TO
THE ALLEGED GUNMAN'S CAR, NEARLY
250 MILES AWAY FROM THE SHOOTING
SCENE.
CONFIRMATION CAME FROM THE
POLICE CHIEF IN CHARLESTON.
>> WE'VE ARRESTED DYLANN ROOF,
R-O-O-F, FROM LEXINGTON, SOUTH
CAROLINA.
APPROXIMATELY 30 MINUTES AGO, HE
WAS ARRESTED IN SHELBY, NORTH
CAROLINA DURING A TRAFFIC STOP.
>> Ifill: STILL IMAGES FROM
SURVEILLANCE VIDEO SHOWED THE
21-YEAR-OLD ROOF OUTSIDE THE
EMANUEL AFRICAN METHODIST
EPISCOPAL CHURCH LAST NIGHT.
POLICE SAID HE WAS INSIDE FOR AN
HOUR BEFORE OPENING FIRE IN A
PRAYER MEETING.
NINE PEOPLE DIED, INCLUDING THE
PASTOR, CLEMENTA PINCKNEY, A
DEMOCRATIC STATE SENATOR WHO
RECENTLY HELPED PASS LEGISLATION
REQUIRING POLICE TO WEAR BODY
CAMERAS.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESIDENT
BOTH SYMPATHY AND FRUSTRATION,
WITH VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN AT HIS
SIDE.
>> NOW IS THE TIME FOR MOURNING
AND FOR HEALING.
BUT LET'S BE CLEAR: AT SOME
POINT, WE AS A COUNTRY WILL HAVE
TO RECKON WITH THE FACT THAT
THIS TYPE OF MASS VIOLENCE DOES
NOT HAPPEN IN OTHER ADVANCED
COUNTRIES.
IT DOESN'T HAPPEN IN OTHER
PLACES WITH THIS KIND OF
FREQUENCY.
AND IT IS IN OUR POWER TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
>> Ifill: MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
HELD A PRAYER VIGIL FOR THE
SHOOTING VICTIMS, AS DID STATE
LAWMAKERS IN COLUMBIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, WHERE CLEMENTA
PINCKNEY'S DESK WAS DRAPED IN
BLACK.
IN 2012, THE PREACHER AND
LAWMAKER REFLECTED ON HIS
POLITICAL ROLE, ON THE PBS
SERIES "MANY RIVERS TO CROSS
WITH HENRY LOUIS GATES, JR."
>> WE NEED TO BE A PART, IF WE
WANT A SAY IN OUR OWN LIFE, IF
WE WANT TO BE INDEPENDENT, IF WE
WANT TO INFLUENCE WHAT'S
HAPPENING AROUND US.
OR THE REVERSE IS TO LET
EVERYBODY ELSE CONTROL AND
INFLUENCE AND THEN WE JUST SORT
OF TAKES WHATEVER COMES.
THAT'S WHAT SLAVES DID.
>> IfilANUEL
A.M.E. CHURCH DATES BACK TO
SLAVE TIMES-- 1816-- AND IS ONE
OF THE OLDEST BLACK CHURCHES IN
THE SOUTH.
BUT IT WAS UNCLEAR TODAY WHAT
A FACEBOOK PICTURE SHOWED THE
SUSPECT, ROOF, WEARING A JACKET
WITH FLAG PATCHES FROM
APARTHEID-ERA SOUTH AFRICA AND
RHODESIA, NOW ZIMBABWE.
AND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL
LORETTA LYNCH SAID THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HAS FORMALLY LAUNCHED
A HATE CRIME INVESTIGATION.
BACK IN CHARLESTON, AN EMOTIONAL
GOVERNOR NIKKI HALEY SPOKE FOR
MANY, STRUGGLING TO MAKE SENSE
OF IT ALL.
>> THE HEART AND SOUL OF SOUTH
CAROLINA WAS BROKEN.
AND SO WE HAVE SOME GRIEVING TO
DO AND WE'VE GOT SOME PAIN WE
HAVE TO GO THROUGH.
PARENTS ARE HAVING TO EXPLAIN TO
THEIR KIDS HOW THEY CAN GO TO
CHURCH AND FEEL SAFE, AND THAT'S
NOT SOMETHING WE EVER THOUGHT
WE'D DEAL WITH.
>> Ifill: ALL OF THIS CAME JUST
TWO MONTHS AFTER WALTER SCOTT,
AN UNARMED BLACK MAN, WAS SHOT
AND KILLED BY A WHITE POLICE
OFFICER IN NEIGHBORING NORTH
CHARLESTON.
WE'LL COME BACK TO THE
CHARLESTON ATTACK, AND HATE
CRIMES IN GENERAL, AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: IN THE DAY'S OTHER
DEVELOPMENTS, PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
TRADE AGENDA GOT A REPRIEVE,
AFTER DEMOCRATS IN THE U.S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES BLOCKED
IT LAST WEEK.
TODAY, REPUBLICANS PUSHED
THROUGH FAST-TRACK NEGOTIATING
AUTHORITY, CLEARING THE WAY FOR
AN ASIAN FREE-TRADE DEAL.
THE BILL GOES TO THE SENATE NOW.
STILL TO COME: VOTES ON HELPING
WORKERS WHO LOSE THEIR JOBS TO
OVERSEAS COMPETITION.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET RALLIED
TODAY, ON HOPES THAT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE MAY WAIT JUST A WHILE
LONGER BEFORE RAISING INTEREST
RATES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 180 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
18,115.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 68 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED 20.
>> Woodruff: LEADERS OF THE
EUROZONE COUNTRIES HAVE CALLED
AN EMERGENCY SUMMIT FOR MONDAY
ON THEIR DEADLOCK WITH GREECE.
FINCE MANINISTERS MET IN
LUXEMBOURG TODAY, AS GREECE
FACED A LOOMING DEADLINE TO MAKE
A HUGE LOAN REPAYMENT, OR
DEFAULT.
THE EUROGROUP CHAIR WARNED OF
"TOO LITTLE PROGRESS."
>> AS OF TODAY IT IS STILL
POSSIBLE, TO FIND AN AGREEMENT,
AND EXTEND THE CURRENT PROGRAM
BEFORE THE END OF THE MONTH.
BUT THE BALL IS CLEARLY IN THE
GREEK COURT TO SEIZE THAT LAST
OPPORTUNITY.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, GREEK
PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS TSIPRAS
TRAVELED TO ST. PETERSBURG,
RUSSIA TO MEET WITH PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN.
THERE'S WIDESPREAD SPECULATION
THAT TSIPRAS IS NOW SEEKING
RESCUE LOANS FROM THE KREMLIN.
>> Ifill: THE NUMBER OF REFUGEES
FLEEING WAR AND PERSECUTION
WORLDWIDE HAS REACHED AN ALL-
TIME HIGH.
THE U.N. REFUGEE AGENCY REPORTED
TODAY THAT NEARLY 60 MILLION
PEOPER
THE LARGEST SINGLE GROUP,
11.6 MILLION, CAME FROM SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: IN HONG KONG, THE
GOVERNING COUNCIL BALKED TODAY
AT GIVING CHINA'S CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT VETO POWER OVER
CANDIDATES FOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OF THE CITY.
IT WAS A VICTORY FOR ACTIVISTS
WHO STAGED LONG-RUNNING PROTESTS
LAST YEAR.
TODAY, PRO-BEIJING LAWMAKERS
WALKED OUT BEFORE THE VOTE,
LEAVING OPPONENTS OF THE
ELECTION PLAN IN CONTROL.
OFFICIALS IN BEIJING CRITICIZED
THE OUTCOME.
>> Ifill: AND, BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, GENDER EQUALITY IS
COMING TO THE $10 BILL.
THE U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY
ANNOUNCED TODAY THE REDESIGNED
VERSION WILL FEATURE A YET-TO-
BE-NAMED WOMAN.
IT WILL BE UNVEILED IN 2020,
MARKING 100 YEARS SINCE WOMEN
GAINETHE D RIGHT TO VOTE.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
THE SOUTH CAROLINA CHURCH
SHOOTING SUSPECT IN CUSTODY, AS
A CITY REELS IN THE WAKE OF
SHOCKING VIOLENCE.
THE POPE WADES INTO
CONTROVERSIAL TERRITORY IN A
CALL TO HALT CLIMATE CHANGE.
RESHUFFLING BIG NAME ANCHORS IN
TV NEWS.
TWO MAJOR FIRST AMENDMENT
DECISIONS COME DOWN AT THE
SUPREME COURT.
WORKERS FIGHTING TO EARN THE
OVERTIME PAY THEY PUT IN.
AND, A NEW MARKET FOR CUBAN
ARTISTS.
>> Ifill: WE NOW RETURN TO THE
STRUGGLE FOR UNDERSTANDING IN
CHARLESTON, AS THE CITY MOURNS
NINE PEOPLE KILLED IN A HISTORIC
BLACK CHURCH LAST NIGHT.
FOR MORE ON TODAY'S
DEVELOPMENTS, WE TURN TO SOUTH
CAROLINA REPRESENTATIVE
JIM CLYBURN, WHOSE DISTRICT
INCLUDES PARTS OF CHARLESTON.
AND, HEIDI BEIRICH, WHO DIRECTS
THE SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW
CENTER'S INTELLIGENCE PROJECT IN
MONTGOMERY, ALABAMA.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR JOINING US.
CONGRESSMAN CLYBURN, HOW IS
CHARLESTON COPING WITH THIS?
>> WELL, CHARLESTON IS COPING
VERY WELL.
I THINK THAT THE LAW ENFORCEMENT
PEOPLE HERE, THE MAYOR HAVE BOTH
STRUCK THE RIGHT TONE I THINK
THAT THE QUICK APPREHENSION OF
THE SUSPECT IN THIS CASE IS
SERVING THIS OVERALL PROCESS
VERY WELL.
BUT THE FACTS STILL REMAINS--
PEOPLE ARE WANTING SOME ANSWERS
TO THE QUESTION OF WHY.
WHY DID THIS HAPPEN?
WAS HE ACTING ALONE?
HOW DID THIS CHURCH OTHER THAN
MOST HISTORIC AFRICAN AMERICAN
CHURCH IN CHARLESTON, IN SOUTH
CAROLINA, FOR THAT MATTER, IN
THE ENTIRE SOUTH, WHY DID HE
PICK THIS CHURCH?
IS HE A PART OF SOMETHING ELSE
BEYOND HIM?
I THINK WHEN WE GET THE ANSWERS
TO THESE QUESTIONS, THIS
COMMUNITY WILL KNOW BETTER HOW
TO RESPOND.
>> Ifill: YOU, YOURSELF, I
BELIEVE ARE A MEMBER OF THE
AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL
CHURCH.
AND YOU KNEW REVEREND PINCKNEY.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE
PERSONAL SCOPE OF THIS LOSS?
>> WELL, I THINK THE CHURCH
SERVICE WE HAD AT NOON TODAY WAS
PROBABLY, I THINK, BISHOP BRYANT
SAID AS WELL-- IT WAS PROBABLY
THE MOST DIVERSE GROUP HE SAID
THAT HE'S SEEN IN A LONG, LONG
TIME.
I WAS A PART OF ALL THESE EVENTS
RIGHT HERE IN CHARLESTON DURING
THE 1969 HOSPITAL STRIKE.
BACK DURING THE 70,ND A EVEN THE
60s, WHEN WE WERE INVOLVED IN
CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVITIES.
BUT 95 HAVE I SEEN A SANCTUARY
IN ANY CHURCH AS REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY THAT I--
THAT I SEE TODAY.
AND SO I THINK THIS COMMUNITY IS
GALVANIZING.
IT IS COALESCING.
IT IS COMING TOGETHER IN A WAY
THAT I THINK WILL SERVE GREAT
PURPOSES GOING FORWARD.
>> Ifill: HEIDI BEIRICH, WE
HEARD BOTH THE JUSTICE DEPARMENT
AND THE MAYOR OF CHARLESTON
TODAY DESCRIBE THIS AS A HEIGHT
HAIGHT CRIME.
WE COULD USE A FEW DEFINITIONS
HERE.
WHAT MAKES IT THAT?
WHAT WOULD MAKE IT THAT?
>> THERE ARE TWO PIECES OF
EVIDENCE RELATED TO THE SHOOTER
THAT PROBABLY MAKE THIS A HATE
CRIME.
ONE, THE COMMENTS ATTRIBUTED TO
HIM ABOUT HOW "YOU PEOPLE ARE
TAKING OVER OUR COUNTRY.
YOU'RE RAPING OUR WOMEN.
OF THOSE ARE RACIST STATEMENTS
THAT COULD INDICATE MOTIVE.
THE OTHER THING WE FOUND
THROUGHOUT THE DAY TODAY IS THIS
PERSON HAS PUS ON FACEBOOK PAGES
AND OTHER PLACES WITH PICTURES
WEARING RACIST PATCHES,
GALORIFYING THE APARTHEID
GOVERNMENT IN RODEED DOOEZIA.
HE HAD A LICENSE PLATE THAT
SAID, "THE CONFEDERATE STATE OF
AMERICA."
FACT THAT HE SAID THESE THINGS
INDICATE HIS MOTIVES MIGHT BE
RACIAL.
>> Ifill: ARE HOUSING OF
WORSHIP TYPICAL TARGETS FOR
THESE KINDS OF CRIMES?
WE CAN THINK ALL THE WAY BACK TO
BIRMINGHAM, THE 16th STREET
BAPTIST CHURCH.
WE CAN THINK ABOUT THE CHURCH
BURNINGS IN THE SOUTH.
I WONDER IF THAT'S A THEME OR
THROUGH-LINE IN ALL OF THESE.
>> WE HAVE SEEN FOR DECADE DECAT
HOUSE OF WORSHIP, PARTICULARLY
HISTORICALLY BLACK CHURCHES,
HAVE BEEN TARGETED BY WHITE
SUPREMACISTS FOR VIOLENCE.
THIS HAS BEEN HAPPENING FOR TIM.
A KLAN GROUP WAS SUED IN THE
90s FOR ATTACKING A BLACK
CHURCH ALSO IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
AND I THINK THE FACT THAT THIS
CHURCH WAS SO SIGNIFICANT
HISTORICALLY MAY HAVE ACTUALLY
MADE IT MORE OF AN OBJECT FOR
VIOLENCE, UNFORTUNATELY.
>> Ifill: WE ARE SHOCKED WHEN
WE HEAR THINGS LIKE THIS.
THE ASSUMPTION, HEIDI BEIRICH,
IS THAT THIS NO LONGER HAPPENS,
OR AT LEAST DOESN'T HAPPEN IN A
REGULAR WAY.
ARE WE MISTAKEN IN THAT?
>> THAT WOULD BE A MISTAKEN
PLAINTIFF.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS LONE
WOLF TAKES HAVE ACTUALLY
HAPPENED ABOUT EVERY FIVE WEEKS
FOR LAST FIVE YEARS.
THEY HAVEN'T ALL ACTUALLY TAKEN
PLACE, BUT THERE HAVE BEEN
ATTEMPTS.
THIS KIND OF VIOLENCE IS REALLY
OUT OF CONTROL, THIS KIND OF
DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
AND IF WE JUST THINK FOR A
LITTLE BIT, YOU'LL REMEMBER THE
SHOOTING AT THE SIKH TEMPLE BY A
SKINHEAD IN 2012.
THE SHOOTING A YEAR AGO BY A
WHITE SUPREMACIST AT A JEWISH
COMMUNITY FACILITY IN KANSAS.
THESE KINDS OF THINGS ARE
HAPPENING WITH FRIGHTENING
REGULATOR.
>> Ifill: SO CONGRESSMAN
CLYBURN, WHAT SHOULD WE AS A
PEOPLE, OR MAYBE EVEN GOVERNMENT
OR NOT GOVERNMENT, DO ABOUT
THESE THINGS?
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
>> WELL, LET ME SAY THIS ABOUT
THE LONE WOLF KIND OF THING.
THIS YOUNG MAN MAY HAVE BEEN
ACTING ALONE, BUT WHAT WERE HIS
MOTIVATIONS?
WHO OR WHAT LED TO HIM
DEVELOPING THESE KIND OF
FEELINGS?
HE'S GOT THE DISTINCT TATTOOS.
HE'S POSTING THINGS ON FACEBOOK.
HE'S GOT THIS CONFEDERATE STATES
OF AMERICA INSIGNIA ON THE FRONT
OF HIS AUTOMOBILE.
THESE ARE NOT LONE WOLF
ACTIVITIES.
THESE ARE ORGANIZED ACTIVITIES
EMANATING FROM SOMEWHERE.
NOW, JUST BECAUSE HE ACTED ALONE
IN THIS DOESN'T MEAN THAT HE IS
NOT GETTING THIS MOTIVATION FOMR
SOME OTHER KIND OF ORGANIZED
EFFORT TAKING PLACE.
AND THAT'S WHY I THINK WE NEED
TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS.
NOW IT'S ONE THING TO WAKE UP
AND PICK UP A BOOK OR LOOK AT TV
AND WANT TO GO OUT AND EMULATE
SOMETHING.
BUT IT'S SOMETHING ELSE AGAIN TO
DEVELOP A WHOLE PHILOSOPHY, A
WHOLE THEORY, A WHOLE APPROACH
TO LIFE BY TUNING IN TO THESE
COORDINATED EFFORTS BEING PUT
FORTH OUT THERE BY HATE GROUPS
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.
SO JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE ACTING
ALONE DOES NOT MEAN THAT YOU'RE
NOT MOTIVATED BY SOMETHING
BROADER AND HIGHER THAN YOU ARE.
>> Ifill: WELL, WE WILL WATCH
THIS UNFOLD, REPRESENTATIVE JIM
CLYBURN, AND HEIDI BEIRICH OF
THE SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER.
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: THE POPE MADE AN
UNPRECEDENTED CALL TO ACTION IN
TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE GLOBALLY
TODAY.
HE ISSUED THE FIRST PAPAL
DOCUMENT DEDICATED SOLELY TO THE
ENVIRONMENT, AND THE VATICAN
HELD A NEWS CONFERENCE WATCHED
AROUND THE WORLD, KICKING OFF
AN EFFORT TO SPREAD THE MESSAGE
TO THE FAITHFUL AND OTHERS IN
MONTHS TO COME.
POPE FRANCIS ISSUED A NEARLY
200-PAGE DOCUMENT CASTING
CLIMATE CHANGE AS A MORAL ISSUE,
NOT SIMPLY A POLITICAL OR
ECONOMIC DEBATE.
LEAD CLIMATE RESEARCHERS JOINED
IN THE FORMAL RELEASE AT THE
VATICAN.
>> I THINK THE ENCYCLICAL, BY
LISTENING TO THE SCIENCE AND
REFLECTING TO THE SCIENCE, IS
BRINGING TOGETHER TWO BIG
MESSAGES: ONE MESSAGE COMES FROM
REASONING, FROM INGENUITY, FROM
TECHNOLOGICAL PROGRESS.
THE OTHER COMES FROM FAITH,
MORAL, ETHICAL VALUES,
CHRISTIANITY, BUT THEY COMBINE
INTO ONE MESSAGE.
>> Woodruff: THAT MESSAGE, TO
THE WORLD'S 1.2 BILLION ROMAN
CATHOLICS, IS: GLOBAL WARMING IS
MOSTLY MAN-MADE...
IT COMES HEAVILY FROM BURNING
FOSSIL FUEL...
AND IT DISPROPORTIONALLY HARMS
THE POOR.
IN THE ENCYCLICAL, THE PONTIFF
WARNS:
"THE PACE OF CONSUMPTION, WASTE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE HAS SO
STRETCHED THE PLANET'S CAPACITY
THAT OUR CONTEMPORARY LIFESTYLE,
UNSUSTAINABLE AS IT IS, CAN ONLY
PRECIPITATE CATASTROPHES."
RICH COUNTRIES MUST ACT
IMMEDIATELY, FRANCIS SAYS, TO
CUT CONSUMPTION OF FOSSIL FUELS
AND HELP POOR NATIONS CREATE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT.
BUT CARDINAL PETER TURKSON, WHO
HELPED PEN THE FIRST DRAFT,
ACKNOWLEDGED TODAY, IT'S A TOUGH
SELL.
SELL. >> (translated
): THERE ARE
>> (translated): THERE
ARE DISCUSSIONS ON ENVIRONMENTAL
DISCUSSIONS ON ENVIRONMENTAL
ISSUES WHERE IT IS NOT EASY TO
ACHIEVE A CONSENSUS.
THE CHURCH DOES NOT CLAIM TO
SETTLE SCIENTIFIC QUESTIONS OR
TO REPLACE POLITICS, BUT,
QUOTING POPE FRANCIS, "I
ENCOURAGE AN HONEST AND OPEN
DEBATE, SO THAT PARTICULAR
INTERESTS OR IDEOLOGIES DO NOT
JEOPARDISE THE COMMON GOOD."
>> Woodruff: TO PROMOTE THAT
DEBATE, CATHOLICS AROUND THE
WORLD WERE ABLE TO VIEW THE
ANNOUNCEMENT, VIA LIVE-STREAM
FROM THE VATICAN.
BUT THE PAPAL DOCUMENT ALSO DREW
CRITICISM.
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE JEB BUSH, WHO'S
CATHOLIC, SAID YESTERDAY IN
IOWA:
"I GO TO CHURCH TO HAVE MY FAITH
NOURISHED, TO HAVE MY FAITH
CHALLENGED... I DON'T GO TO MASS
FOR ECONOMIC POLICY OR FOR
THINGS IN POLITICS."
AND THE SENATE'S LEADING CLIMATE
CHANGE SKEPTIC, REPUBLICAN JAMES
INHOFE OF OKLAHOMA, DISMISSED
WHAT HE CALLED "THE POPE'S
PHILOSOPHY ON GLOBAL WARMING."
EVEN SO, SUPPORTERS ARE HOPING
THE ENCYCLICAL WILL PUSH UNITED
NATIONS CLIMATE SUMMIT TO REACH
AGREEMENT, LATER THIS YEAR.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID HE ADMIRED
THE POPE'S DECISION TO ISSUE
TODAY'S HISTORIC CALL WITH HIS
"FULL MORAL AUTHORITY".
BUT IN THE U.S. SENATE,
REPUBLICANS VOTED AGAINST
FUNDING SEVERAL ADMINISTRATION
INITIATIVES ON CURBING CLIMATE
CHANGE AND CLEAN WATER RULES.
THIS MORNING, I SPOKE WITH THE
ARCHBISHOP OF WASHINGTON,
CARDINAL DONALD WUERL, ABOUT THE
POPE'S ENCYLICAL.
WE MET AT THE NATIONAL PRESS
CLUB.
YOUR EMINENCE, CARDINAL DONALD
WUERL, THANK YOU FOR SPEAKING
WITH US.
>> JUDY, IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE
HERE.
>> Woodruff: WHY DID POPE
FRANCIS WANT TO DEVOTE AN ENRETI
ENCYLICAL TO THE ENVIRONMENT, TO
CLIMATE CHANGE?
>> WHAT HE IS DOING, I BELIEVE,
IS CALLING ALL OF US TO
RECOGNIZE THAT THERE ARE SERIOUS
PROBLEMS.
THERE ARE SERIOUS PROBLEMS THAT
HAVE TO DO WITH THE ENVIRONMENT,
THAT HAVE TO DO WITH THE WAY IN
WHICH WE LIVE AND CONSUME.
AND HE'S ASKING ALL OF US TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THE WORLD AROUND
US AND WHAT DO WE HAVE TO DO TO
SEE THAT OUR WHIC CHILDREN AND
GRANDCHILDREN AND
GREAT-GRANDCHILDREN WILL HAVE
THE BENEFIT OF THIS MAGNIFICENT
CREATION THAT WE ENJOY.
IT & SO HE'S GIVING THIS CALL TO
EVERYBODY TO PARTICIPATE IN A
DISCUSSION ON HOW DO WE BEST
SERVE ONE ANOTHER IN OUR HOME,
WHICH IS THIS PLANET?
I THINK THE STARTING POINT IS
THE RECOGNITION THE EARTH IS OUR
COMMON HOME.
THIS IS WHERE WE ALL LIVE.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES HE SEE
THE CONNECTION BETWEEN CARING
FOR THE EARTH AND CARING FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE ALIVE TODAY AND
GENERATIONS TO COME AND THE
FOCUS ON THE POOR?
>> HE SAYS IN ANY DISCUSSION,
WHETHER YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
BIODIVERSITY, WHETHER YOU'RE
LKITANG ABOUT THE POLLUTION OF
WATER, WHETHER YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT DeFORESTATION, YOU NEED
TO START WITH THE PERSON, THE
HUMAN PERSON.
THE GOAL OF EVERYTHING THAT WE
HAVE IS THE FLOURISHING OF HUMAN
LIFE.
SO WE START THERE, AND THEN WE
SAY THAT HAS TO TAKE PLACE IN
THE CONTEXT OF A SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE RESOURCES
THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO US WHILE
PROTECTING THE PLANET.
SO YOU HAVE THESE THREE ELEMENTS
IT'S PERSON, THE PLANET, AND
REASONABLE, SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT.
>> Woodruff: IT IS NOT
UNPRECEDENTED FOR A POPE TO BE
TAKING A BOLD STAND ON AN ISSUE,
A CONTROVERSIAL ISSUE.
HE IS TAKING THIS FURTHER THAN
HIS PREDECESSORS IN POPE JOHN
PAUL II, POPE BENEDICT, IN
SAYING THERE'S AN URGENCY HERE.
HOW UNPRESS DEPARTMENTED IS
THAT?
>> JUDY, I THINK WHAT WE'RE
SEEING IN THIS ENCYLICAL IS A
RECOGNITION THAT THERE-- THERE'S
A TIME ELEMENT INVOLVED, BUT THE
URGENCY IS TO GET THE DISCUSSION
GOING.
THE URGENCY IS TO RECOGNIZE-- HE
BEGINS THE ENCYLICAL BY LISTING
ALL OF THESE THINGS THAT WE
RECOGNIZE ARE DAMAGING THE
EARTH.
, THE DEFORESTATION IS ONE
EXAMPLE.
THE LACK OF SUFFICIENT WATER,
THE LACK OF CLEAN WATER, ALL OF
THESE THINGS ARE FACTS.
>> Woodruff: HOW DID HE
SATISFY HIMSELF THAT THE SCIENCE
IS SETTLED ON WHETHER HUMANS ARE
CAUSING CLIMATE CHANGE?
AS YOU KNOW, THERE'S STILL
ARGUMENT OUT THERE ABOUT THAT.
>> I DON'T SEE ANY DECLARATIONS
AFFIRMING ANY PARTICULAR THEORY
ABOUT ANY TYPE OF SCIENTIFIC
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING.
HE'S JUST POINTING T POINTING TT
THAT IT'S THERE, THAT THESE
THINGS ARE CLEARLY HAPPENING
AROUND US,ING AND WHAT HE'S
SAYING IS SHOULD THE STARTING
POINT BE WITH ALL OF THIS NOT SO
MUCH TRYING TO FUSS OVER THIS
PIECE OR THAT PIECE, BUT ALL OF
THAT TOGETHER CALLS US TO WORK
TOGETHER WITH A SENSE OF URGENCY
TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
ENVIRONMENT IS PRESERVED.
>> Woodruff: HE'S CALLING ON
POLITICAL LEADERS.
HE'S CALLING ON CAPTAINS OF
INDUSTRY TO CHANGE THE DIRECTION
THEY'RE GOING IN, TO MAKE A
DRAMATIC CHANGE-- CHANGES-- IN
EFFECT.
HOW MUCH POWER DOES THE POPE
HAVE, DOES HE BELIEVE, DO YOU
BELIEVE, TO GET THAT KIND OF
DRAMATIC CHANGE TO TAKE PLACE?
>> I THINK WHAT OUR HOLY FATHER
IS ASKING-- AND THAT'S WHY HE'S
NOT IMPOSING ANYTHING.
HE'S NOT SAYING WHAT THE
SOLUTIONS ARE, BUT HE IS LIFTING
UP THE PROBLEMS AND FOR US TO
TRY TO RESOLVE THESE PROBLEMS.
WHAT HE BRINGS IS THE MORAL
DIMENSION.
IT'S NOT ANY LONGER WHAT CAN WE
DO BE?
THE THE QUESTION NOW IS WHAT
SHOULD WE DO?
WHAT OUGHT WE TO DO WHEN WE'RE
DEALING WITH THIS ENVIRONMENT,
WHEN WE'RE DEALING WITH THIS
GOOD EARTH?
>> Woodruff: THERE IS
PUSH-BACK ALREADY FROM CLIMATE
CHANGE SKEPTICS, FROM POLITICAL
CONSERVATIVES.
JUST YESTERDAY, ONE OF THE
CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT FOR THE
REPUBLICAN NOMINATION, FORMER
FLORIDA GOVERNOR JEFFREY BROWN,
WHO IS ROMAN CATHOLIC, SAID I
RESPECT THE POPSICLE, BUT I
THINK IT'S BETTER TO SOLVE THIS
PROBLEM IN THE POLITICAL REALM.
HE SAID RELIGION IS ABOUT MAKING
US BETTER AS PEOPLE AND LESS
ABOUT THINGS IN THE POLITICAL
REALM.
>> I DON'T THINK THE POPE IS
SAYING TO POLITICIANS, HERE IS
WHAT YOU MUST DO.
HERE IS THE ANSWER."
BUT WHAT HE IS SAYING AS A
SPIRITUAL LEADER, A RELIGIOUS
LEADER-- TOGETHER WITH OTHER
RELIGIOUS LEADERS-- I'M CALLING
ON EVERYONE TO LOOK AT THE
PROBLEMS AND BEGIN TO COME UP
WITH SOME SOLUTIONS.
HIGHS NOT SAYING TO POLITICIANS,
"THIS IS WHAT YOUR PUBLIC POLICY
OR YOUR POLITICAL PLATFORM
SHOULD BE."
AND HE'S NOT SAYING TO PEOPLE
INVOLVED IN THE WORLD OF
INDUSTRY, THE WORLD OF
DEVELOPMENT, "THIS IS WHAT YOU
MUST DO."
BUT HE IS SAYING, IN LIGHT OF
ALL THE PROBLEMS THAT THERE ARE
AND EVEN IF YOU MIGHT PRIORITIZE
THEM DIFFERENTLY, WE ALL
RECOGNIZE WE HAVE TO WORK
TOGETHER TO RESOLVE THESEPROBLE.
>> Woodruff: BUT IT SOUNDS AS
IF GOVERNOR BUSH OTHER ANDS ARE
SAYING WE'RE NOT GOING TO LISTEN
TO THE POPE ON THIS ISSUE.
>> WELL, I CORRESPOND IF AS TIME
GOES ON AND PEOPLE BEGIN TO LOOK
MORE DEEPLY INTO THIS AND HEAR
WHAT THE POPE IS SAYING, THERE
WILL BE A STRONGER SENSE OF-- A
REALIZATION OF WHAT HE'S
ACTUALLY ASKING.
>> Woodruff: HOW IS THE POPE,
HOW ARE YOU, AS A LEADER IN THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH, GOING TO FOLLOW
UP ON THIS?
WHAT IS THE PLAN TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD BEYOND TODAY'S
ANNOUNCEMENT?
>> JUDY, THAT'S A VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT QUESTION.
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO DO
IS USING TODAY, USING THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE ENCYLICAL AS
A STARTING POINT, WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO DEVOTE A LOT OF ENERGY
TO EDUCATION, AND EVEN GETTING
THE ISSUE OUT INTO THE PUBLIC.
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO BE DOING IN
THIS ARCHDIOCESE, FOR EXAMPLE,
WE'RE GOING TO SPEND A LOT OF
TIME GETTING THIS MESSAGE OUT,
PULLING APART-- UNPACKING THIS
ENCYLICAL, AND HELPING OUR
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND BETTER WHAT
IT'S SAYING.
BUT THIS IS A LONG-TERM PROJECT.
BUT EVERYTHING IN THE CHURCH IS
LONG TERM.
>> Woodruff: LONG TERM AND,
YET, THE POPE IS TRYING TO
INFLUENCE WHAT COMES OUT OF THE
CLIMATE CHANGE SUMMIT THIS
WINTER IN PARIS.
>> IT'S-- IT'S TRUE.
THERE ARE SOME SHORT-TERM
MEASURES, BUT THE CHURCH DOESN'T
SEE HER TEACHING IN THOSE TERMS.
SHE SEES HER TEACHING AS
FORMATIVE OF CONSCIENCE THAT
WILL BE ULTIMATELY DIRECTIVE
LONG-TERM-WISE, OF A BETTER
WORLD.
>> Woodruff: CARDINAL DONALD
WUERL, YOUR EMINENCE, WE THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> JUDY, IT'S BEEN A PLEASURE TO
BE HERE WITH YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOD BLESS YOU.
>> Ifill: AFTER MONTHS OF
REVIEW, NBC NEWS ANNOUNCED TODAY
THAT LONGTIME ANCHORMAN BRIAN
AS ANCHOR OF THE NETWORK'S
"NIGHTLY NEWS" PROGRAM.
HE WILL, HOWEVER, STAY WITH NBC
AND JOIN ITS CABLE OUTLET MSNBC
AS A BREAKING NEWS ANCHOR.
LESTER HOLT, WILLIAM'S TEMPORARY
REPLACEMENT, WILL NOW OFFICIALLY
GET THE JOB AS ANCHOR OF NBC
NIGHTLY NEWS.
WILLIAMS WAS SUSPENDED AFTER THE
DISCOVERY THAT HE FABRICATED A
STORY ABOUT COMING UNDER FIRE ON
A HELICOPTER DURING THE IRAQ
WAR.
BUT THERE WAS MORE.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: AN INTERNAL NBC
REVIEW ALSO FOUND WILLIAMS MADE
A NUMBER OF INACCURATE
STATEMENTS ABOUT HIS EXPERIENCE
REPORTING IN THE FIELD.
THE NETWORK IS CALLING THE MOVE
TO MSNBC A CHANCE TO EARN BACK
EVERYONE'S TRUST.
TWO VIEWS ON THE WISDOM OF THIS
DECISION:
ANDREW HEYWARD IS THE FORMER
PRESIDENT OF CBS NEWS.
MARK FELDSTEIN IS A PROFESSOR AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
COLLEGE OF JOURNALISM.
HE'S A FORMER INVESTIGATIVE
CORRESPONDENT FOR ABC AND CNN.
ANDREW HEYWARD, I WANT TO START
WITH YOU.
IT SEEMS THAT THIS WAS A
PRACTICAL DECISION MORE SO THAN
A PRINCIPLED ONE.
IF BRIAN WILLIAMS CAN BE
TRUSTED, WHY NOT GIVE HIM HIS
JOB BACK?
IF HE CAN'T BE TRUSTED, DOESN'T
THIS CREATE SORT OF A DOUBLE
STANDARD?
IS MASSACHUSETTS NBC JUST A
LITTLE LOWER THAN NBC?
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S A
DOUBLE STANDARD FOR ACCURACY.
THE VIEWER HAS THE RIGHT TO
EXPECT ACCURACY FROM A REPORTER
REPORTING FROM A MUDSLIDE IN
MARIN COUNTY JUST AS FROM THE
ANCHOR OF AN EVENING NEWSCAST.
I DO THINK THERE'S A HIERARCHY
IN THE TELEVISION NEWS WORLD,
AND THE EVENING NEWS OR THE
NIGHTLY NEWS HAS TRADITIONALLY
BEEN THE SO-CALLED FLAGSHIP
PROGRAM, AND WITH THE SLIGHT
EXCEPTION OF ABC NOW,
TRADITIONALLY, THE ANCHOR OF
THAT PROGRAM HAS BEEN THE
SO-CALLED FACE OF THE NETWORK.
SOENING THIS CASE, BRIAN IS
PAYING A PRICE FOR SEVERE ERRORS
IN JUDGMENT.
I DON'T THINK THAT ANYBODY'S
GOING TO HOLD HIM TO A DIFFERENT
STANDARD FOR ACCURACY, AND I
THINK THE VIEWERS WILL
UNDERSTAND EXACTLY WHAT'S GOING
INTO WILL NOT THINK THAT SOMEHOW
THEY'RE BEING GIVEN SOME KIND OF
SECOND-CLASS CITIZEN AS A
JOURNALIST.
>> Sreenivasan: MARK
FELDSTEIN, CAN WILLIAMS REGAIN
HIS CREDIBILITY AS THE FACE OF
BREAKING NEWS, AS NBC WOULD LIKE
HIM TO BE?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
WE'LL SEE.
I'M SKEPTICAL.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU DON'T TELL THE
TRUTH, WHETHER IT'S ON THE AIR
OR ON YOUR NEWSCAST OR AN
TIT 10 OR 11 TIMES-- WHICH IS
WHAT'S BEEN REPORTED-- I THINK
THERE'S A CLOUD THAT'S GOING TO
HANG OVER HIM.
AND IT WAS BREAKING NEWS WHERE
HE GOT HIMSELF INTO TROUBLE IN
THE FIRST PLACE TELLING SOME OF
THESE EXAGGERATIONS.
YOU KNOW, AS A JOURNALISM
PROFESSOR, I TRY TO TEACH MY
STUDENT THAT THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING IS THE TRUTH, IS ACCURACY,
AND THE TROUBLE IS, THIS SENDS A
MESSAGE THAT, NO, REALLY, FAME
MATTERSES MORE, SLICKNESS
MATTERS MORE, BEING COZY WITH
YOUR BOSSES MATTERS MORE.
AND THAT'S TROUBLING.
>> I RESPECTFULLY DISAGREE WITH
THAT.
I DON'T THINK THIS IS ABOUT
COZINESS WITH THE BOZS.
I THINK THIS WAS A BUSINESS
DECISION THAT THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE NBC NEWS GROUP, ANDY LACK,
MADE IF A BUSINESS-LIKE WAY.
YES, IT'S A PRACTICAL DECISION,
BUT I ACTUALLY DON'T THINK THAT
BRIAN IS GOING TO-- WELL, THE
VIEWERS WILL GET TO ULTIMATELY
DECIDE WHETHER HE CAN REGAIN HIS
CREDIBILITY.
BUT JUST A SLIGHT CORRECTION.
NO ONE IS ALLEGING HE DISTORTED
HIS BREAKING NEWS REPORTING.
MOST OF THESE SINS WERE WELL
AFTER THE FACT ON TALK SHOWS.
AGAIN, I DON'T WANT TO SPLIT
HAIRS.
THESE WERE VERY BAD FLOORS
JUDGMENT.
BUT THE ONE THING WE CAN BE
PRETTY DARN SURE OF IS BRIAN
WILLIAMS IS NEVER GOING TO
EXAGGERATE HIS EXPLOITS AGAIN.
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW THIS.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE TAKING THE
NETWORK'S WORD FOR IT.
THEY HAVE KEPT THEIR REPORT
SECRET.
THEY HAVE NOT REVEALED IT TO THE
PUBLIC.
THE INVESTIGATION WAS HELD IN
SECRET BY INTERNAL EMPLOYEES WHO
ONCE ANSWERED TO BRIAN WILLIAMS.
THE FACT TATHEY'RE NOT RELEASING
THIS REPORT, FRANKLY, IS
SUSPECT, AND IT RAISES
SUSPICIONING TANBC WOULD NEVER
ACCEPT FROM A POLITICIAN OR
CORPORATION IT WERE
INVESTIGATING.
>> Sreenivasan: MARK
FELDSTEIN, HOW DOES THIS PLAY
INTO THE ROLE OF THE ANCHOR
CHANGING?
IT'S CERTAINLY DINNER THAN IT
WAS 25 YEARS AGO.
>> WELL, THAT'S TRUE.
ONE OF THE DIRTY LITTLE SECRETS
OF TELEVISION NEWS IS THAT IN
MANY RESPECTS THE FAMOUS ANCHORS
ARE GLORIFIED ANNOUNCERS--
PRESENT COMPANY EXCEPTED HERE,
PBS IS SMALLER STAFF AND NOT
COMMERCIAL.
MOST OF THE JOURNALISTIC NEWS
GATHERING IS DONE OFF CAMERA BY
PRODUCERS WHO ARE MUCH LOWER
PAID, AND THERE'S THIS SORT OF
CONTEMPTKIN VILLAGE.
MAYBE IF NBC WERE TO COP TO THAT
AND WE WENT TO A POSTMODERN
ANCHOR, A YOUNGER, SAFFIER,
HIPPER AUDIENCE MIGHT GET THAT.
>> I THINK MARK IS ON TO
SOMETHING, THAT THE PRETENSE AND
THE PHONY OMNISCIENT OF
TELEVISION NEWS HAS TO EITHER
WHITHER AWAY OR BE STRIPPED AWAY
FOR THE NEXT GENERATION TO
ACCEPT IT UPON I THINK,
IRONICALLY, BRIAN-- THIS MAY
SEEM COUNTER-INTUITIVE-- IS A
GOOD PERSON TO DO THAT, AND
CABLE IS AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE
HE'S GOING TO HAVE A CHANCE TO
DO MUCH MORE EXESM RAINS
REPORTING, ESPECIALLY IF HE'S
DOING LIVE OR BREAKING EVENTS.
I THINK THE BREAKDOWN IS WHEN
YOU'RE COVERING A LIVE BREAKING
EVENT.
THAT'S A HIGH LEVEL OF SKILL.
YES, IT'S COLLABORATIVE, BUT
TRUST ME-- AND I KNOW, MARK,
ALSO-- WE BOTH WORKED WITH LOTS
OF NETWORK ANCHORS.
THEY ARE VERY, VERY TALENTED
PEOPLE AND BRIAN WILLIAMS IS
AMONG THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT
ANDREANDREW HEYWARD AND MARK
FELDSTEIN, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU BET.
>> Woodruff: TODAY AT THE
SUPREME COURT, TWO SIGNIFICANT
RULINGS ON THE FIRST AMENDMENT.
THE COURT RULED, FIVE TO FOUR,
THAT THE TEXAS STATE GOVERNMENT
HAS THE RIGHT TO NOT ISSUE
CONFEDERATE FLAG LICENSE PLATES.
AND, IN A UNANIMOUS DECISION,
THE COURT SAID THE SIGN
ORDINANCE IN THE TOWN OF
GILBERT, ARIZONA, WAS TOO
RESTRICTIVE OF A LOCAL CHURCH.
FOR MORE ON THESE CASES, AS
ALWAYS, IS MARCIA COYLE OF THE
NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL.
MARCIA.
>> HI, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TAKE THIS
TEXAS LICENSE PLATE CASE.
THIS WAS A CASE BROUGHT ON
BEHALF OF THE SONS OF
CONFEDERATE VETERANS.
>> RIGHT.
THEY WANTED TO HAVE A SPECIALTY
LICENSE PLATE THAT INCLUDE THE
CONFEDERATE BATTLE FLAG.
THE STATE OF TEXAS TURNED THEM
DOWN.
THEY HAD A NUMBER OF PUBLIC
COMMENTS FINDING THAT DISPLAY
OFFENSIVE.
THE SUPREME COURT TODAY RULED
THAT TEXAS DID NOT VIOLATE THE
FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS OF THIS
ORGANIZATION.
JUSTICE BREYER WROTE THE
OPINION.
HE SAYS SADE THIS IS NOT PRIVATE
SPEECH PROTECTED BY THE FIRST
AMENDMENT.
WHAT APPEARS ON YOUR LICENSE
PLATE IS GOVERNMENT SPEECH.
GOVERNMENT HAS TRADITIONALLY
USED LICENSE PLATES TO CONVEY
MESSAGES.
IT USES LICENSE PLATES FOR
IDENTIFICATION AND REGISTRATION
OF DRIVERS, AND THE STATE
ULTIMATELY HAS THE AUTHORITY TO
DECIDE WHAT GOES ON THE LICENSE
PLATE.
HE ASKED, "WHY WOULD THIS
ORGANIZATION PREFER ITS MESSAGE
ON A LICENSE PLATE INSTEAD OF
MAYBE A BUMPER STICKER NEXT TO
THE LICENSE PLATE."
HIGH SAID, "PERHAPS IT'S BECAUSE
THEY WANT THE MESSAGE TO APPEAR
TO BE THE OFFICIAL MESSAGE OF
THE STATE."
BUT JUST AS THE STATE CAN'T
COMPEL A PRIVATE PARTY TO CONVEY
A STATE MIDGE THAT IT DISAGREES
WITH, HE SAID, THE SONS OF
CONFEDERATE VETERANS CAN'T
COMPEL THE STATE TO CONVEY A
MESSAGE WITH WHICH IT DISAGREES.
>> Woodruff: AND THE
DISSENTERS, AMONG OTHER THINGS,
ARGUE THESE LICENSE PLATES CAN
ISSUE A PRIVATE-- THAT THEY ARE
PRIVATELY OWNED, PRIVATELY
CONTROLLED.
>> JUSTICE ALITO WROTE THE
DISSENT, AND SAID THIS IS
PRIVATE SPEECH PROTECTED BY THE
FIRST AMENDMENT AND TEXAS'
DENIAL OF THE DISPLAY WAS
BLATANT VIEWPOINT
DISCRIMINATION.
HE SAID HOW COULD ANY REASONABLE
PERSON LOOKING AT A DISPLAY
PLATE THAT SAYS, "RATHER BE
GOLFING" THINK THAT IS THE
OFFICIAL MESSAGE OF THE STATE.
>> Woodruff: HOW COMMON, MASH
AFOR JUSTICE CLARENCE THOMAS TO
VOTE WITH THE FOUR LIBERAL
JUSTICES.
>> WOULDN'T SAY IT'S COMMON BUT
IT'S NOT UNUSUAL TO SEE
CROSS-OVERS BETWEEN LEFT AND
RIGHT SIDES OF THE BENCH, AND I
THINK IT'S A REMINDER TO US THAT
THESE ARE NOT MONOLITHIC BLOCS
ON THE COURT AND THERE ARE
CERTAIN ISSUES WHERE THEY DO
DISAGREE WITHIN THEIR PARTICULAR
IDEOLOGICAL GROUPINGS.
>> Woodruff: AND INTERESTING
THIS HAD TO BE OF TO DO WITH THE
CONFEDERATE FLAGS.
THE OTHER DECISION INVOLVED ROAD
SIGNS SP A CHURCH WHERE THEY
WANTED TO PUT A DIRECTIONAL
SIGN.
>> RIGHT.
GILBERT, ARIZONA HAD A SIGN CODE
AND CATEGORIZED SIGNS AS
IDEOLOGICAL, POLITICAL, AND
DIRECTIONAL.
THE GOOD NEWS COMMUNITY CHURCH
NEEDED DIRECTIONAL SIGNS BECAUSE
IT DIDN'T HAVE A PERMANENT HOME.
IT HAD TO TELL PEOPLE WHERE IT
WAS MEETING EACH WEEK.
THEY RAN AFOUL OF THE TIME
LIMITS ON TEMPORARY DIRECTIONAL
SIGNS.
THEY SUED THE TOWN SAYING THAT
THEIR FIRST AMENDMENT SPEECH
RIGHTS WERE BEING VIOLATED, AND
TODAY IN A UNANIMOUS DECISION,
JUSTICE THOMAS, HE WROTE THAT
THE TOWN DID VIOLATE THE FIRST
AMENDMENT RIGHTS OF THIS CHURCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW, SOME OF THE
DISSENTERS, AT LEAST ONE OF
THEM, POINTED OUT THEIR CONCERN
IS THIS COULD HAVE WIDER
REPERCUSSIONS.
THIS COULD AFFECT WHAT MANY
CITIES DO AROUND THE COUNTRY.
>> RIGHT.
THE REASON FOR THAT IS JUSTICE
THOMAS APLIELD THE
CONSTITUTION'S TOUGHEST TEST FOR
CONSTITUTIONALITY TO THIS TOWN'S
SIGN CODE.
HE SAID THAT THE CODE WAS
CONTENT BASED, AND IT HAD TO
SURVIVE STRICT SCRUTINY-- THAT
IS, THE TOWN COULD ONLY KEEP ITS
CODE IF IT COULD JUSTIFY IT AS
SERVING A COMPELLING GOVERNMENT
INTEREST, AND IT WAS NARROWLY
TAILORED TO DO THAT.
AND HE SAID THE CODE WAS
HOPELESSLY UNDERINCLUSIVE.
JUSTICE KAGAN--
>> Woodruff: NOT A DISSENTER,
EXPRESSING CONCERN.
>> EXACTLY, SHE SAID THIS CODE
WAS SO UNCONSTITUTIONAL IT COULD
HAVE FAILED UNDER LESSER
SCRUTINY, BUT BECAUSE JUSTICE
THOMAS APLIELD THE TOUGHEST
SCRUTINY, SHE FELT THAT MANY
REASONABLE SIGN CODES WILL BE
CHALLENGED AND MAY ALSO BE
STRUCK DOWN.
AND SHE SAID THE SUPREME COURT
ITSELF MAY BECOME A SUPREME
COURT BOARD OF SIGN REVIEW AS
THOSE CASES GET TO IT.
>> Woodruff: LANGUAGE WE'RE
GOING TO REMEMBER.
MARCIA COYLE-- AND BIG DECISIONS
TO COME FROM THIS COURT IN THE
WEEKS TO COME.
>> I THINK WE HAVE ABOUT 11
LEFT-- SAME-SEX MARRIAGE, MAJOR
CHALLENGE TO A HEALTH CARE LAW.
THE COURT WILL MEET AGAIN
MONDAY.
>> Woodruff: MARCIA COYLE, WE
THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: THIS MONTH THE
ADMINISTRATION IS EXPECTED TO
REVAMP WORKPLACE RULES THAT
WOULD MAKE MILLIONS MORE WORKERS
ELIGIBLE FOR OVERTIME PAY.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN REPORTS.
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY SEGMENT,
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> TIME TO MAKE THE DONUTS.
>> Reporter: FRED THE BAKER,
ICON FOR THE FRESHNESS OF
DUNKIN' DONUTS MORE THAN 30
YEARS AGO.
>> TIME TO MAKE THE DONUTS!
>> Reporter: FRED WAS A FICTION,
BUT THE REALITY FOR ONE DUNKIN'
DONUTS WORKER LOOKED A LOT LIKE
THE ADS.
>> I'M WORKING 75 HOURS A WEEK,
OR 80 HOURS A WEEK.
>> Reporter: FOR YEARS, GUHSAHN
MARZOOK WORKED FRED-LIKE HOURS
AS A SALARIED MANAGER AT THIS
OUTLET OUTSIDE BOSTON.
PROBLEM IS, HE NEVER SAW ONE
CENT IN OVERTIME.
>> IF YOU WORK 40 HOURS, OR IF
YOU WORK 100 HOURS, IT'S THE
SAME PAY.
>> Reporter: DIVIDE MARZOOK's
HOURS BY HIS BARELY $800 A WEEK
SALARY, AND, ON A PER HOUR
BASIS...
>> I'M MAKING ONLY $9, $10 AN
HOUR.
WHICH IS LESS, EVEN LOWER THAN
THE REGULAR EMPLOYEES, WHAT THEY
ARE MAKING.
>> Reporter: UNDER CURRENT LAW
YOU GET TIME-AND-A-HALF FOR
EVERY HOUR YOU WORK IN A WEEK
PAST 40, UNLESS YOU MAKE MORE
THAN $23,600 A YEAR AND YOU'RE
AN EXECUTIVE, ADMINISTRATOR OR
PROFESSIONAL WITH ADVANCED
KNOWLEDGE.
MARZOOK'S EMPLOYER CLASSIFIED
HIM AS AN EXECUTIVE, EVETHOUN GH
HE VERY OFTEN DID THE SAME WORK
AS THE HOURLY EMPLOYEES.
>> YOU SERVING CUSTOMERS, YOU
POURING COFFEE, YOU CLEANING,
YOU'LL CLEAN THE BATHROOMS,
CLEAN THE PARKING LOT, THE TITLE
DOES NOT MEAN ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: THE SALARY
THRESHOLD UNDER WHICH ALL
EMPLOYEES WERE PAID OVERTIME IN
1975, IF YOU FIGURE IN
INFLATION, WOULD NOW BE $51,000,
COMPARED TO TODAY'S ACTUAL
$23,600, AN AMOUNT THAT'S BEEN
RAISED JUST ONCE IN THE LAST 40
YEARS.
MORE THAN 60% OF SALARIED
EMPLOYEES WERE ELIGIBLE FOR
OVERTIME IN 1975.
TODAY LESS THAN 10% QUALIFY.
>> Reporter: SO LAST YEAR,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED A
MEMORANDUM DIRECTING THE
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR TO UPDATE
OVERTIME RULES TO HELP WORKERS
LIKE MARZOOK.
>> NOW OVERTIME'S A PRETTY
SIMPLE IDEA.
IF YOU HAVE TO WORK MORE, YOU
SHOULD GET PAID MORE.
>> Reporter: PROGRESSIVE MEGA
INVESTOR NICK HANAUER FIRST MADE
US AWARE OF THE OVERTIME ISSUE'S
IMPORTANCE TO ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY IN A POST ON OUR
MAKING SENSE WEBSITE THAT DREW
NEARLY A MILLION READERS.
>> A HIGH OVERTIME THRESHOLD IS
INDISPENSABLE TO CREATING A
THRIVING MIDDLE CLASS, BECAUSE
IN THE ABSENCE IF IT, AN
EMPLOYER LIKE ME WILL PITCH A
FAKE TITLE LIKE ASSISTANT
MANAGER TO SOMEBODY AND WORK
THEM 60 HOURS A WEEK INSTEAD OF
40, AND GET 20 HOURS OF WORK FOR
FREE.
>> Reporter: LAWYER SHANNON
LISS-RIORDAN ARGUES HER CLIENT,
GUHSAN MARZOOK, SHOULD HAVE
RECEIVED OVERTIME AND HAS SUED
HIS FORMER EMPLOYER, WHICH RUNS
50 DUNKIN DONUTS OUTLETS IN
MASSACHUSETTS.
>> THIS IS COMMON PRACTICE IN
AMERICA.
BECAUSE THEY PUT THEIR MANAGERS
ON SALARY, THEY CAN WORK THEIR
MANAGERS AS MANY HOURS AS THEY
WANT.
>> Reporter: CONSIDER FORMER
DOLLAR GENERAL STORE MANAGER
DAWN HUGHEY.
SHE WAS PAID $35,000 A YEAR BUT
REGULARLY WORKED 60-70 HOURS A
WEEK, NO OVERTIME.
>> I'M THE FREE HELP, I'M THE
ONE THEY GOT TO, YOU KNOW, TAKE
OVER.
I COULD NEVER COMMIT TO ANYTHING
AS FAR AS PLANS WITH FRIENDS OR
FAMILY BECAUSE MY STORE WAS
ALWAYS MY NUMBER ONE
RESPONSIBILITY.
>> Reporter: ANY DAY NOW, THE
ADMINISTRATION IS EXPECTED TO
REDEFINE WHICH WORKERS ARE
EXEMPT AND HIKE THE THRESHOLD.
LABOR ADVOCATES SAY IF IT'S
BOOSTED TO $51,000 A YEAR, MORE
THAN SIX MILLION WORKERS WOULD
AUTOMATICALLY QUALIFY FOR
OVERTIME PAY.
BUT, SAY EMPLOYERS...
>> WE DON'T THINK VERY MANY MORE
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO GET OVERTIME
AS A RESULT OF THIS RULE.
>> Reporter: FACT IS, SAYS DAVID
FRENCH OF THE NATIONAL RETAIL
FEDERATION, HIS INDUSTRY SIMPLY
CAN'T AFFORD THE ESTIMATED
$9.5 BILLION A YEAR IT WOULD
COST TO PAY OVERTIME TO EVERY
WORKER MAKING UP TO $51,000 A
YEAR.
SO...
>> INSTEAD OF PROVIDING OVERTIME
FOR MILLIONS MORE WORKERS,
EMPLOYERS ARE GOING TO MAKE
RATIONAL CHOICES, AND THEY'RE
GOING TO SPREAD THE SAME AMOUNT
OF MONEY ACROSS A SLIGHTLY
LARGER POOL OF HOURLY AND PART
TIME WORKERS.
>> Reporter: IN OTHER WORDS, NO
MORE BEHIND-THE-COUNTER
EXECUTIVES.
AT WHITE CASTLE, FAMOUS FOR ITS
SQUARE SLIDERS, VICE PRESIDENT
JAMIE RICHARDSON THINKS THE
COMPANY'S ALMOST 400 SALARIED
GENERAL MANAGE WILRSL BE GIVEN
LOWER BENEFITS OR SWITCHED TO
HOURLY JOBS.
THAT, HE SAYS, WOULD STIFLE
CAREER ADVANCEMENT.
>> IT WOULD TAKE OPPORTUNITY
AWAY FROM LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF
PEOPLE WHO WORKED SO HARD TO GET
TO THAT POINT.
OUR GENERAL MANAGERS TAKE
TREMENDOUS PRIDE IN BEING
CONSIDERED SALARIED, THAT'S A
BIG ACCOMPLISHMENT.
>> Reporter:: OVERTIME ACTIVIST
NICK HANAUER'S RESPONSE?
>> A COMPANY HAS CER ATAIN
AMOUNT OF RESPONSIBILITY TO HAND
OUT, YOU CAN'T RUN THE COMPANY
WITHOUT GIVING PEOPLE THAT
RESPONSIBILITY, AND PEOPLE ARE
NOT GOING TO HAVE LESS
RESPONSIBILITY BECAUSE THEY
DON'T HAVE FAKE TITLES ANYMORE.
IT'S JUST NOT TRUE.
>> Reporter: BUT WHAT ABOUT THE
ARGUMENT THAT EMPLOYERS ARE
SIMPLY NOT GOING TO HAVE
MANAGERS ANYMORE, LIKE THIS?
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T AFFORD TO,
AND SO, EVERYBODY WILL BE AN
HOURLY EMPLOYEE?
>> IT'S CERTAINLY LIKELY THAT
MOST EMPLOYERS WON'T PAY PEOPLE
TIME AND A HALF.
THAT'S VERY EXPENSIVE.
AND WHAT EMPLOYERS ARE LIKELY TO
DO IS SIMPLY ADD WORKERS TO
THEIR PAYROLLS, WHICH LOWERS THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, ADDS, ADDS
FRANKLY CUSTOMERS TO OUR
ECONOMY, AND DRIVES UP WAGES,
WHICH IS THE SOURCE OF THE
PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: WHATEVER THE
CHANGES, THOUGH, THEY'RE TOO
LATE FOR GUHSAN MARZOOK.
>> I NEVER HAD THE TIME TO ENJOY
MY KIDS' CHILDHOODS TO BE WITH
THEM.
BECAUSE I DEDICATED MY LIFE TO
WORK AT DUNKIN' DONUTS.
>> Reporter: PARENT-TEACHER
CONFERENCES.
DID YOU GO TO THEM?
>> NONE.
>> Reporter: SPORTS ACTIVITIES?
>> Reporter: GRADUATION OF YOUR
KIDS?
>> I MISSED GRADUATION.
>> Reporter: BECAUSE YOU WERE
WORKING?
>> Reporter: MARZOOK HAD COME TO
AMERICA FROM KUWAIT, SHOOTING
FOR THE AMERICAN DREAM.
BUT GIVEN THE TOLL THE JOB TOOK,
WHY DID HE PUT UP WITH IT?
SUPPOSE YOU'D SAID "NO, I'M ONLY
GOING TO WORK 40 HOURS, I'M
SORRY.
I CAN'T WORK ANY MORE, YOU'RE
NOT PAYING ME FOR THAT."
>> BE TERMINATED.
IF YOU DON'T LIKE IT, YOU'LL
LEAVE.
BUT WHAT YOU GOING TO DO?
I'M NOT EDUCATED PERSON, I DON'T
HAVE A DEGREE.
>> Reporter: (D SO THESE DAYS
GUHSAN MARZOOK PUMPS GAS, A
PART-TIME JOB SO, NO OVERTIME
HERE EITHER.
THIS IS ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN REPORTING FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR FROM BOSTON.
>> Woodruff: AND TO CUBA.
TONIGHT JEFFREY BROWN VISITS THE
HAVANA BIENNIAL ART SHOW TO
REPORT ON CUBA'S BOOMING ART
MARKET, AS WELL AS THE VERY REAL
LIMITS ON FREE EXPRESSION THAT
REMAIN IN THE SOCIALIST COUNTRY.
IT'S ANOTHER INSTALLMENT IN OUR
SERIES THIS WEEK, "THE CUBAN
EVOLUTION."
>> Brown: ON A RECENT FINE
EVENING IN HAVANA, ONE COULD:
FOLLOW THE YELLOW BRICK ROAD
LEADING INTO THE SEA.
HOP SCOTCH THROUGH AN AMERICAN
FLAG MADE OF GIANT PICK-UP
STICKS.
ENTER A TRANSLUCENT CUBE, AND
LOOK OUT AT A BLUE WORLD.
ALL PART OF A GRAND FESTIVAL--
THE HAVANA BIENNIAL.
THERE IS ART ALL ALONG THE
FAMOUS MALECON AND THROUGHOUT
THE CITY RIGHT NOW, ART, IN
FACT, IS ONE OF THE WAYS THIS
ISOLATED ISLAND HAS CHOSEN TO
SH ITSOWELF TO THE WORLD, AND
THE WORLD IS PAYING ATTENTION.
THIS IS THE CITY'S 12th
BINIALEN, BUT IT'S THE FIRST
SINCE THE U.S AND CUBA ANNOUNCED
EFFORTS TO NORMALIZE DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONS.
EVERYWHERE YOU LOOKED, IN
VARIOUS CORNERS OF THE CITY:
WORK BY ARTISTS FROM SOME 42
COUNTRIES.
SOME OF IT FAIRLY TRADITIONAL,
SOME OF IT, NOT, LIKE THIS
TROPICAL ICE-SKATING RINK,
WHY IS THE BIENNIAL SO IMPORTANT
HERE, WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
MARGARITA SANCHEZ IS ONE OF THE
BIENNIAL CURATORS.
>> IN CUBA, CULTURE IS VERY
IMPORTANT, WE LE, AIVND WORK,
AND EXPRESSUT O OF OUR HOME, IN
THE STREET, MAYBE BECAUSE OF THE
WEATHER, WE DON'T KNOW, BECAUSE
WE ARE CUBANS, WE ARE VERY
EXPRESSIVE.
>> Brown: AND, INCREASINGLY,
VERY PROMINENT ON THE
INTERNATIONAL ART SCENE.
AT THE BIENNIAL, MORE THAN 250
CUBAN ARTISTS EXHIBITED WORKS IN
THE HISTORIC 16th CENTURY
FORTRESS ON A BLUFF ABOVE
HAVANA.
TONY RUBENSTEIN, AN AMERICAN
WITH A NEW GUIDE BOOK ON CUBAN
CONTEMPORARY ART, SAYS DEMAND
FOR THIS WORK IS HIGH.
>> THE ART MARKET RIGHT NOW IS
EXPLODING, ESPECIALLY ON THE
VERY, VERY TOP END.
THERE ARE ARTISTS HERE WHO ARE
ALREADY IN THE TATE MODERN, THAT
ARE ALREADY IN THE MUSEUM OF
MODERN ART IN NEW YORK, AND WHEN
THERE IS ESTABLISHED HERE, A
MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART,
THOSE ARTISTS, THE VALUE OF
THE
>> HELLO, NICE TO MEET YOU,
HELLO SENOR.
>> Brown: HOWARD FARBER IS ONE
OF THE TOP COLLECTORS.
>> HI, HI.
>> Brown: AT THE BIENNIAL, HE
SPONSORED A GALA AFFAIR TO
ANNOUNCE THE FIRST INTERNATIONAL
CUBAN ART AWARDS.
>> OUR MISSION IS TO SPREAD THE
WORD ON HOW GREAT THE ART SCENE
IS IN CUBA.
>> Brown: FARBER BEGAN BUYING
CUBAN ART IN EARNEST, AND BULK,
IN THE LAST DECADE, AFTER MAKING
MILLIONS ON THE SALE OF HIS
CONTEMPORARY CHINESE ART
COLLECTION IN 2007.
YOU TOLD ME THAT YOU FIND CUBAN
ART SEXY, WHAT DOES SEXY MEAN?
>> Brown: IS PART OF THE
ATTRACTION FOR YOU AS A
COLLECTOR, THE FORBIDDEN?
>> I GUESS SO.
I NEVER REALLY THOUGHT ABOUT IT
BUT I LIKE TO GO WHERE PEOPLE
HAVEN'T GONE BEFORE.
>> Brown: IT'S A PARADOX IN THIS
HOME OF THE SOCIALIST
REVOLUTION: BIG MONEY FLOWING
FROM OUTSIDE, TO ARTISTS INSIDE.
INDEED, ARTISTS HERE ARE
POSITIVELY ENTREPRENEURIAL.
ADRIAN FERNANDEZ AND HIS
PARTNERS WERE ABLE TO CREATE
THIS UPSCALE STUDIO AFTER NEW
LAWS MADE IT POSSIBLE TO BUY AND
SELL PROPERTY.
THEY NOW SELL THEIR WORK
DIRECTLY TO CONSUMERS, MOSTLY
ABROAD, AVOIINGD GOVERNMENT-RUN
GALLERIES AND REAPING THEIR OWN
PROFITS
>> IT'S DEALING DIRECTLY WITH
THE PEOPLE THAT REACH US HERE,
WE CONNECT DIRECTLY.
>> Brown: AND INDEED, HE AND HIS
FRIENDS WERE RECEIVING AMERICAN
VISITORS BY THE BUSLOAD DURING
THE BIENNIAL.
IN ANOTHER PART OF TOWN, AN EVEN
MORE UNEXPECTED SCENE: THE
BEVERLY HILLS WOMEN'S CLUB,
TALKING MONEY AND MONOPOLY ART
AT THE HOME OF ONE OF CUBA'S
MOST PRONENTMI ARTISTS.
>> I MIX IT ALL WITH COCA-COLA
SIGNS.
>> Brown: KADIR LOPEZ TAKES OLD
SIGNS FROM AMERICAN COMPANIES
THAT WERE ACTIVE HERE BEFORE THE
REVOLUTION, AND SUPERIMPOSES
IMAGES AND PHOTOGRAPHS ON TOP OF
THEM.
>> SO, I LIKE TO PUT SOME KIND
OF METAPHORS IN BETWEEN.
>> Brown: IT'S A LAYERING OF
TIMES AND MESSAGES, WORKING
THROUGH METAPHORS, HE SAYS, NOT
OVERT POLITICS, THAT CAN BE READ
A VARIETY OF WAYS.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE SEEMING
CONTRADICTION OF MAKING ART IN A
SOCIALIST COUNTRY FOR AMERICANS
FROM BEVERLY HILLS?
>> WHEN I PAINT, WHEN I CREATE
SOMETHING I PUT X AMOUNT OF
ENERGY IN A CANVAS OR A PIECE OF
METAL ON A SCULPTURE OR AN
INSTALLATION.
THAT ENERGY COULD HAVE A VALUE
IN THE MARKET.
>> Brown: YES, IT DOES.
>> A PERSON COMES AND SAYS, HERE
IS X AMOUNT OF MONEY, THAT I'M
WILLING TO TRADE FOR YOU, IF YOU
GIVE ME THAT.
SO THAT'S HOW I BALANCE THAT.
>> Brown: IS THAT NOT
CAPITALISM?
SUR>>E, SO THAT COULD BE
CAPITALISTIC OR NO, I HAVE NO
IDEA, AND I'M NOT THINKING ABOUT
IT.
I KNOW THERE'S SOMETHING GOOD
COMES FROM MY ART.
>> Brown: CALL IT WHAT YOU WILL,
CLEARLY THINGS ARE CHANGING
HERE.
BUT SE THOMINGS REMAIN, CASTING
A SHADOW OVER THE BIENNIAL:
>> I'VE BEEN ACCUSED BY THE
GOVERNMENT TO INCITE PEOPLE TO
BE DELINQUENT, THAT I INCITE
PEOPLE TO DO PUBLIC
DISTURBANCES.
>> Brown: IN THE 2009 BIENNIAL,
TANIA BRUE
OF PERFORMANCE ART IN WHICH
CUBANS WERE INVITED TO SPEAK
THEIR MINDS.
WHEN SHE TRIED TO STAGE IT AGAIN
IN DECEMBER, IN RESPONSE TO THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF A RE-OPENING OF
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH THE
U.S., SHE WAS STOPPED AND
DETAINED, HER PASSPORT TAKEN.
WERE YOU TRYING TO PROVOKE?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT, ABSOLUTELY
NOT.
I THINK I BELIEVED THAT IT WAS A
HISTORICAL MOMENT, AND THAT ART
HAS A ROLE TO PLAY DURING
HISTORICAL MOMENTS.
PEOPLE WERE IN SHOCK.
WHY?
BECAUSE IT IS AN ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT PUTS INTO REFLECTION, INTO
DOUBT, INTO RETHINK WHAT IT
MEANS TO BE CUBAN, WHAT IT MEANS
TO BE REVOLUTIONARY, I THINK IT
WAS A HISTORIC MOMENT BECAUSE IT
WAS A MOMENT OF IDENTITY CRISIS
FOR THE REVOLUTION.
>> Brown: SHE SAYS FELLOW CUBAN
ARTISTS PRACTICE A FORM OF SELF-
CENSORSHIP.
>> IT'S KIND OF SAD WHEN YOU
HAVE TO CONFORM, WHICH MEANS
THAT THE WORK THE STATE HAS DONE
TO MAKE YOU AFRAID HAS WORKED.
>> Brown: BRUGUERA SAYS SHE'S
BEEN TOLD SHE CAN LEAVE CUBA,
BUT ONLY IF SHE NEVER RETURNS, A
DEAL SHE'S REFUSED.
IN THE MEANTIME, SHE AWAITS
POSSIBLE PROSECUTION.
THE HAVANA BIENNIAL, MINUS TANIA
BRUGUERA, WILL BE ON DISPLAY
UNTIL JUNE 22.
FROM CUBA, I'M JEFFREY BROWN FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: TODAY,WE ARE LAUNCHING
A NEW SERIES ON FACEBOOK WE ARE
CALLING "BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR."
THESE ARE INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED
BY PRODUCER STEVE GOLDBLOOM,
FEATURING PERSONAL INSIGHTS FROM
ARTISTS, AUTHORS, LEADERS, AND
THINKERS, TELLING US, BRIEFLY,
WHAT THEY ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT.
LOOK FOR THEM EVERY THURSDAY ON
NEWSHOUR'S FACEBOOK PAGE AND
OFTEN TIMES, HERE ON THE
BROADCAST.
WE KICKED OFF THE SERIES WITH A
MESSAGE OF GRATITUDE FROM POET
SARAH KAY.
I TELL PEOPLE THAT SPOKEN WORD
POETRY IS A TYPE OF POETRY THAT
DOESN'T JUST WANT TO LIVE ON
PAPER, THAT SOMETHING ABOUT IT
DEMANDS TO BE HEARD OUT LOUD AND
WITNESSED IN PERSON.
IT'S A VERY IMMEDIATE ART FORM.
YOU GET TO SEE VISIBLY ON
PEOPLE'S FACES AND HEAR OUT LOUD
IF AND WHEN THEY ARE RESPONDING.
THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BEEN LED TO BELIEVE THAT POETRY
IS NOT FOR THEM OR THEY DON'T
GET POETRY.
AND THAT ALWAYS MAKES ME SAD
BECAUSE A BIG PART OF WHAT I TRY
TO DO IN MY WORK, NOT ONLY IN MY
ART, BUT ALSO IN MY WORK IN
CLASSROOMS IS TRY TO MAKE POETRY
FEEL A LITTLE BIT MORE
ACCESSIBLE.
SOMETIMES I'M IN AN AUDIENCE
WHERE IT IS HELPFUL TO GIVE THEM
TIME TO REALIZE THAT A POEM IS
GOING TO HAPPEN.
AND OTHER TIMES, IT'S ACTUALLY
MORE EFFECTIVE TO NOT WARN
PEOPLE.
WHEN I'M INSIDE WRITING, ALL I
CAN THINK ABOUT IS HOW I SHOULD
BE OUTSIDE LIVING.
WHEN I'M OUTSIDE LIVING, ALL I
CAN DO IS NOTICE ALL THERE IS TO
WRITE ABOUT.
WHEN I READ ABOUT LOVE, I THINK
I SHOULD BE OUT LOVING.
WHEN I LOVE, I THINK I NEED TO
READ MORE.
I'M STUMBLING IN PURSUIT OF
GRACE.
I HUNT PAESHES WITH A VENGEANCE.
ON MORNINGS WHEN MY BROTHER'S
TIRED MUSCLES HELDED TO PILLOW
MY FATHER USED TO TELL HEM, "FOR
EVERY MOMENT YOU AREN'T PLAYING
BASKETBALL SOMEONE ELSE IS ON
THE COURT PRACTICING."
I SPEND MOST OF MY TIME
WONDERING IF I SHOULD BE
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
SO INSTEAD, I HAVE LEARNED TO
SHAPE THE WORDS "THANK YOU" WITH
MY FIRST BREATH EACH MORNING, MY
LAST BREATH EACH NIGHT, WHEN THE
VERY LAST BREATH COMES, AT LEAST
I WILL KNOW I WAS GRATEFUL FOR
ALL THE PLACES I WAS SO SURE I
WAS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE, ALL THE
PLACES I MADE IT TO, ALL THE
LOVES I HELD, ALL THE WORDS I
WROTE, AND EVEN IF IT IS JUST
FOR ONE MOMENT, I KNOW I WILL BE
EXACTLY WHERE I'M SUPPOSED TO
BE.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE CONTINUE OUR
SERIES ON THE CUBA EVOLUTION,
WITH A SPECIAL REPORT FROM
INSIDE YEMEN.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.